## Update(s):
* Bug fixed (June 2024): function "set_options" to set options for CVX was missing and was added to src/utils.

# Weighted LASSO-type Greedy Algorithms Based on OMP
Code used to generate the figures of the article: [*The greedy side of the LASSO: New algorithms for weighted sparse recovery via loss function-based orthogonal mathcing pursuit*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.00844) by *Sina Mohammad-Taheri and Simone Brugiapaglia*.

# Article's abstract
We propose a class of greedy algorithms for weighted sparse recovery by considering new loss function-based generalizations of Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP). Given a (regularized) loss function, the proposed algorithms alternate the iterative construction of the signal support via greedy index selection and a signal update based on solving a local data-fitting problem restricted to the current support. We show that greedy selection rules associated with popular weighted sparsity-promoting loss functions admit explicitly computable and simple formulas. Specifically, we consider l0- and l1-based versions of the weighted LASSO (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator), the Square-Root LASSO (SR-LASSO) and the Least Absolute Deviations LASSO (LAD-LASSO). Through numerical experiments on Gaussian compressive sensing and high-dimensional function approximation, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms and empirically show that they inherit desirable characteristics from the corresponding loss functions, such as SR-LASSO's noise-blind optimal parameter tuning and LAD-LASSO's fault tolerance. In doing so, our study sheds new light on the connection between greedy sparse recovery and convex relaxation.

# Required packages
The scripts partially use the following MATLAB packages:
* *"Sparse Polynomial Approximation of High-Dimensional Functions by Ben Adcock, Simone Brugiapaglia and Clayton G. Webster"*, code associated to the book available in the respository: [sparse-hd-book](https://github.com/simone-brugiapaglia/sparse-hd-book), used in Experiments II and V.
* *Convex programming package*, available in [CVX package](http://cvxr.com/cvx/), used in Experiments IV and V.

These packages should be added to the Matlab path before running the scripts.

# How to use this code
## Code organization
### src
Contains the main Matlab files used to create figures.

### utils (inside the src folder)
Contains various Matlab functions needed across main scripts.

### data
Contains .mat files generated by the scripts in src.

### figs
Contains .eps files generated by the scripts in src.

## Example
In order to generate Fig.4 in the article (Expreiment IV), you can run the following script "...\src\Fig_4\Fig_4_vis.m". This will create an image based on the previously generated data available in "...\data\Fig_4". To rerun the numerical experiments and change the settings, you can use the script "...\src\Fig_4\Fig_4.m".
  
# Disclaimer
This code is provided as a complementary resource for readers and without warranty of any kind. The code may not be suitable for all purposes and the user assumes all risks associated with its use.
